feat: experimental traffic analysis (#2848)
Redocly/redocly-cli: docs/@v2/commands/drift.md

# `drift`

> ## Introduction

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> The `drift` command detects drift between recorded HTTP traffic and an OpenAPI description. It reads a traffic log (or a folder of logs), matches each request/response exchange to a documented operation, and reports the discrepancies it finds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `drift` command detects drift between recorded HTTP traffic and an OpenAPI description.
The command reads a traffic log (or a folder of logs), matches each request/response exchange to a documented operation, and reports the discrepancies it finds.
```

The `drift` command reports:

- undocumented endpoints
- undocumented request parameters and headers
- missing required parameters or request bodies
- request and response schema mismatches
- baseline security issues (opt-in OWASP API risk heuristics)

Spec loading reuses the same engine as the other commands (`@redocly/openapi-core`), and schema validation reuses the bundled `@redocly/ajv`, so there are no extra runtime dependencies.

> {% admonition type="warning" name="Important" %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% admonition type="warning" name="Experimental" %}
```

> The `drift` command is considered an experimental feature. This means it's still a work in progress and may go through major changes. The command, flags, and output are subject to change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is an experimental feature.
Its behavior, command, flags, and output may change in future releases.
```

The `drift` command supports OpenAPI 3.x descriptions only.
{% /admonition %}

### Supported traffic formats

> The traffic input can be provided in any of the following formats. By default the format is detected automatically from the file contents:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The traffic input can be provided in any of the following formats.
By default the format is detected automatically from the file contents:
```

- HAR
- Kong
- Nginx JSON
- Apache JSON
- NDJSON

{% admonition type="info" name="Large captures" %}
JSON-array traffic files (HAR, Kong, and webserver JSON) are read fully into memory. For very large captures, prefer the NDJSON format, which is streamed.

> {% /admonition %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
JSON-array traffic files (HAR, Kong, and webserver JSON) are read fully into memory.
For very large captures, prefer the NDJSON format, which is streamed.
```

| --config         | string  | Specify path to the [configuration file](../configuration/index.md).                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| --lint-config    | string  | Specify the severity level for the configuration file.<br/>**Possible values:** `warn`, `error`, `off`. Default value is `warn`.                                                                                                                                                  |
| --help           | boolean | Show help.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |

> | --version        | boolean | Show version number.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| --help           | boolean | Display help.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| --version        | boolean | Display version number.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
```

The `owasp-api-top10` rule is opt-in and only runs when included in `--rules`.

## Examples

### Validate a HAR capture against a single description

```bash
redocly drift ./traffic.har --api ./openapi.yaml
```

### Validate a folder of logs against a folder of descriptions

```bash
redocly drift ./traffic-logs/ --api ./openapi/ --format json
```

### Declare the server the traffic was captured against

> When the captured traffic does not carry the documented host or base path (for example, behind a gateway that adds `/api`), use `--server` to declare the actual server. Only requests under it are considered, and the remaining path is matched against the description paths directly:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the captured traffic does not carry the documented host or base path (for example, behind a gateway that adds `/api`), use `--server` to declare the actual server.
Only requests under it are considered, and the remaining path is matched against the description paths directly:
```
